Docker on plesk (#162)
layershift/kb-layershift: pages/02.managed-vps/07.docker/01.docker-on-plesk/docs.en.md

Reviewer: We can make this unambiguous by inserting `local` here:
> You do not need a license to manage the local Docker service running on your Layershift Plesk server.

Author: Caveat added and rewording on licensing done.

---
title: 'Docker Containers on Plesk'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - docs
aura:
    pagetype: website
metadata:
    'og:url': 'https://www.layershift.com/kb/managed-vps/docker/docker-on-plesk'
    'og:type': website
    'og:title': 'Docker Containers on Plesk | Layershift KB'
    'og:image': 'https://www.layershift.com/kb/user/images/ls-kb.jpg'
    'og:image:type': image/jpeg
    'og:image:width': 1200
    'og:image:height': 630
    'og:author': Layershift
    'article:published_time': '2026-06-24T18:46:05+01:00'
    'article:modified_time': '2026-06-24T18:46:05+01:00'
    'article:author': Layershift
media_order: 'OS_Panel.png,Extension Installation.png,Image_Selection.png,Image Version.png,AutoMemoryName.png,Volume Mappings.png,variablesPortsandVolumes.png,stack.png,demo-stack.png,container_settings.png,port_clash.png,restartcontainer.png,stack removal.png,COntext.png,ValkeySearch.png,ValkeyVersion.png,valkeyMemoryLimits.png,ValkeyENV.png,volumes.png,lb-recreate.png,UploadImage.png,RunLocal.png'
page-toc:
    active: true
---

Setting up a Dockerised container might seem complicated, but with Layershift and Plesk it's extremely easy!

### Prerequisites

> Your server will need to be one of our AlmaLinux or Cloudlinux servers to operate Docker on Plesk. This can be seen in the System Overview panel on the right hand panel when you view the Websites and Domains page in Plesk.

Reviewer: I think this whole prerequisite should go; the only options are AlmaLinux or CloudLinux, so we're just giving the customer extra (unnecessary!) work by asking them to check this

Author: Done

Author: Re-done

> 																				![COntext](COntext.png?lightbox&resize=555 "COntext")

Reviewer: Obviously also remove the screenshot if we don't need them to check which OS they have 😉

Author: Done

Author: Re-done.

 
You're likely to need at least 512MiB of free RAM per container, but this may need to be higher depending on workload and image. Keep in mind that each Docker container adds to the overall resource requirements for your server. You can upgrade easily at any time; just reach out to our Support team if you need to add more!

Every Layershift VPS includes regular automated backups. The entire server filesystem is backed up on a frequency and retention scheduled according to your server's backup plan, but depending on your particular Docker image you might want to make additional arrangements, for example some database containers may not be properly restorable from a filesystem backup.

We also recommend that you read the [Plesk Documentation](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#setting-up-nginx-to-proxy-requests-from-domains-to-a-container) on the topic, although the below article will help you get setup using Docker on Plesk and if you run into any issues along the way, we have a [24/7 Helpdesk you can contact with your issues](https://help.layershift.com)
 

> ## Installation

Reviewer: This section needs revising on the basis that the Docker Extension is preinstalled on all (Layershift) servers now; so they just need instructions about how to find/open the extension, not how to *install* it.

Author: Done

Docker installation is a two step process, first we will install the Plesk extension, then we will setup a running container.

Plesk Dashboard > Extensions > Search Docker > Select "Get It Free". Once installed it will appear in the menu on the left.
        
        
![Extension%20Installation](Extension%20Installation.png "Extension%20Installation")
   
   
If you are unable to install the extension, please contact our [helpdesk](https://help.layershift.com).

### Image Selection

> Goto the Docker option in the left hand panel, then Run Container.

Reviewer: 2 words (unless you're `BASIC`): 
> Go to

Author: Done

 Docker image search pulls images from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/). Check the Upload Image below for adding your own, or adding images you have sourced from other sources.
  Search for your desired application image > Select specific image > Select version. 
      
      

>    ![ValkeySearch](ValkeySearch.png "ValkeySearch")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific. For example:
> Screenshot of Plesk Docker extension showing search results for valkey.

Author: Done.
The word tag was mentioned specifically since it a key technical word.

Reviewer: Unclear what was done? Alt text for the image seems to be unchanged?

Author: Valkey image search results, with the selected image highlighted in purple

>    ![ValkeyVersion](ValkeyVersion.png "ValkeyVersion")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific. For example:
> Screenshot of Plesk Docker extension showing valkey image tag selection.

Author: is that not 
https://github.com/layershift/kb-layershift/blob/Docker-on-Plesk/pages/02.managed-vps/07.docker/01.docker-on-plesk/ValkeySearch.png

?

Reviewer: There's one for the image search and another for the tag selection - from what I saw / understood?

Author: I understood what you meant...eventually. Updated.

Reviewer: Image alt text appears to be unchanged?

Author: Image tag search results including both numbered, named and latest versions

#### Upload Image

If you have your own custom images that you would like to use, following the instructions in https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#o77137.
 
You can now upload that image by going to the purple and then green highlighted boxes below. Once up 
 

> ![UploadImage](UploadImage.png "UploadImage")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: I am unclear on what should be more specific. The images are very spoonfeedy.

Reviewer: "UploadImage" is not a very full description of the screenshot.

Example:
> Screenshot of the Plesk Docker extension. The Images tab is selected, and the Upload Image button at the top of that section is highlighted.

Imagine you're describing the image to someone over the phone on a support call. Open the Docker extension in Plesk, click on the Images tab. You should see... what comes next is basically what you should write in the alt text.

Reviewer: Image alt text appears to be unchanged?

Author: Screenshot of the Plesk Docker extension. The Images tab is selected, and the Upload Image button at the top of that section is highlighted.

Once the image is uploaded, you can run that image (or any other local images), by pressing the Run button highlighted below.

> ![RunLocal](RunLocal.png "RunLocal")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: I am unclear on what should be more specific. The images are very spoonfeedy.

Reviewer: Hopefully my prior comment from https://github.com/layershift/kb-layershift/pull/162#discussion_r3675795343 helps? I'm not writing all of the alt text for you 😉

Author: Screenshot showing highlighted run local play button from the Valkey search

Once done, you can follow the instructions below on setting up limits and configuration.

### Memory Limits and Autostart
We now set the container name, any desired memory_limits and auto restart.

> ![valkeyMemoryLimits](valkeyMemoryLimits.png "valkeyMemoryLimits")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: I feel between the text and the image this is pretty well explained without going into currently unnecessary detail or patronisation.

IE, telling the customer what memory is and its function within a server and thereby necessary limits in detail. For a how-to doc, it just adds fluff.
 The preq section mentions RAM, container resource consumption and resource limitations, so the customer will be aware.

If you have specific suggestions, please give them. I dont need the copy written, just need to know what you need specifically.

Reviewer: The purpose of alt text is to:
* Make it easy for search engines to understand the image/content (this helps with SEO)
* Make it possible to understand the page content if the image doesn't load for some reason (broken link, bad connection, text only browser etc.)
* Make it possible for a visually impaired person to fully understand the content

You're not patronising anyone, you're describing the image in words.

Author: Oh, now you say its SEO related....now it makes sense. Okay. I get the task now.

Author: Screenshot of the container name prod-valkey-cache, a set memory_limit of 1024Mb and auto-restart tick box checked

Turns out, he did not understand the task.....he does now though!

  
## Mapping
### Port Mapping

> Manual port binding is available if the "Automatic port mapping" button is deselected. You can set both the port you wish inside and outside the container and if you wish the port to accessible from the internet. It is always accessible from the server(127.0.0.1)

Reviewer: I think we need to explain when/why manual port mapping vs. automatic port mapping is desirable. I need some guidance about which I should use / in what scenario.

Author: besides avoiding port clashes, do you have other times you think manual should be used?

Reviewer: Well, I'm not the one who researched the feature ... but [this is one scenario where manual is needed](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#setting-up-nginx-to-proxy-requests-from-domains-to-a-container)

Another would probably be if you want to connect to it from something else (e.g. if you deploy a database server, and want to connect to it from your application code running outside of Docker) - in that scenario you'd need to know what port it's listening on in order to write/configure your application code accordingly.

There may be more (and we may want/need to give some guidance about which port numbers are safe to use / what happens if the port you enter is already in use by something else)?

Author: Documentation wasn't super caring about why you needed manual or automatic mapping, it just tells you how to do it. There are many many many possible reasons why a customer may want to use a different port from the default.
Besides port clashing, it would simply be an long list, I don't think it is a productive area of discussion outside Port Clashes. 
 This is why I asked you for a particular set of occasions for its use that you can think of, if there is basically 3 scenarios, we can detail them. If it is more than that its just unnecessary padding of the document. particularly since this is already a considerably sized document compared with its counterparts.

 I think we simply state, What a port clash is, how port clashes can be avoided with manual port mapping, be clear its an option so a customer is aware of it if they need or want it as an option. A link to reserved ports so they can see them.

Author: Amended to give important port details, The section in which a demonstration of port clash resolution (Domain Proxying) is mentioned.

> Manual port binding is available if the "Automatic port mapping" button is deselected. You can set both the port you wish inside and outside the container and if you wish the port to accessible from the internet. It is always accessible from the server(127.0.0.1)

Reviewer: Please add a space between `server` and `(`:
> ...from the server (127.0.0.1).

Author: Done. ALthough i wish the ' ' was half the size, the ip looks a bit disconnected out there now.

### Volume Mapping

> Please disregard the error message. Your volumes will be backed up according to your servers backup license and schedule.

Reviewer: Maybe we can state this a bit more clearly. Something like:
> Although Docker volumes are excluded from backups created by the Plesk backup tools, your entire Layershift Managed VPS (including any Docker volumes) is backed up according to your selected [backup plan](/kb/managed-vps/backups/full-filesystem-backups#retention-period-and-freq).

Author: I think your message is more confusing than what I have written.

we can put that the it is the Layershift server backup license to show that it is ours, and not just a general thing.
But I think your first sentence makes the matter more confusing, particularly since we are not fans of the Plesk Backup Tool and recommend against it. I understand that it is for specificity and to ensure that the detail about PBT not backing up docker vols is known. But since we don't want people doing that anyway, I feel we shouldn't mention it all and if people come in with issues relating to it. We know the answer.

"please dont use PBT, docker vols arent backed up, and you are already covered" Simples.

Reviewer: We can't do anything about the fact there's a big bad warning label there, so explaining that the warning relates to Plesk backup tools is (IMO) the cleanest way to deal with that.

There's also the possibility that customers actually are using Plesk backups in some manner (e.g. in conjunction with remote storage, which we do not discourage / advise against), so explaining the full situation is better than being selective here - is my mindset/approach.

Happy for you to revise the wording how you see fit, but the substance of what's covered was deliberate.

Reviewer: I don't think the substance of what I proposed is included in your current version.

Author: Please disregard the error message. This warning is due to Docker volumes not being backed up by the Plesk Backup Tool. Your volumes will be backed up according to your servers backup license and schedule, as backing up the server will necessarily include backing up your Docker volumes.

Reviewer: I think that's longer and more confusing than what I proposed originally:

> Maybe we can state this a bit more clearly. Something like:
> 
> > Although Docker volumes are excluded from backups created by the Plesk backup tools, your entire Layershift Managed VPS (including any Docker volumes) is backed up according to your selected [backup plan](/kb/managed-vps/backups/full-filesystem-backups#retention-period-and-freq).

You must use absolute paths in both entries.

Below we have a mapping for 

> /var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache > /var/lib/valkey.

Reviewer: I think the key part here is to explain that the path on the left side is the VPS, and the path on the right side is where that gets mounted inside the container.

Perhaps something like this:
> Volume mapping allows you to specify a persistent storage location for data used by your Docker Container. This data persists between redeploys of the container, whilst all other data within the container is ephemeral.
>
> We recommend to store your docker volumes in a consistent path, such as within `/var/lib/docker/volumes`. This is the location where that data will reside on your VPS.
>
> Therefore for our example Valkey container, we might use `/var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache`.
>
> We mount that volume at `/var/lib/valkey` inside the container. This allows the container to read and write data in that location (but it cannot traverse above that path on the VPS).

Author: rewritten and expanded

Author: and  little more to mention the limit on being unable to escape the directory.

Reviewer: I think maybe this revision got lost in the tab closing calamity?

Author: Expanded to be a little more explanatory and clearer.

> ![volumes](volumes.png "volumes")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: Volume section retouched en masse. The minimal information here should now be fully within context and therefore informative.

Reviewer: Image alt text appears to be unchanged?

Author: Screenshot of volume mapping with server directory /var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache on the left and container directory /var/lib/valkey on the right. There is a blank entry showing greyed out text with Host on the right and Container on the left

> ![Volume%20Mappings](Volume%20Mappings.png "Volume%20Mappings")

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to replace this with a similar image that relates to our example? I.e. we don't mention these paths or servers/images, so it would be better to have something with `/var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache` and `/var/lib/valkey`.

Doesn't need to be "amazing" - something created in GIMP or similar would be fine.

Author: Im just going to take this out, the more I look at it, the more it just seems to add confusion and add a brief explainer at the start of this section.

I added a line above explicitly stating which side is server and which side is internal. Additionally in the remaining image it says Host and Container, which I deliberately left in for this explanatory purpose.
 Personally I also thought the clue was in the /docker/volumes and felt it was implicit, but I can see where confusion would creep in, particularly if one of the explanatory images has things in the wrong direction.

Reviewer: Volume%20Mappings.png is still here?

Author: Purged.

### Environmental Variables
Below you can examples of port, volume and environmental variable mapping.

> ![ValkeyENV](ValkeyENV.png "ValkeyENV")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: Explanation of EVs given.

Reviewer: Image alt text appears to be unchanged?

Author: Screenshot showing Automatic Mapping in unticked, Manual Mapping set to port 6379 on both host and container with the port being inaccessible from the internet. Volume mapping, as per the above image. Various common Environmental Variables within generic values to demonstrate purpose

## Docker-compose

Should you wish to run a docker-compose.yaml file and setup a whole stack like the below. There are multiple ways you can upload your compose file.

> ![stack](stack.png "stack")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: IM going to mark all other parts of this section as resolved since it needs to be viewed, critiqued and fixed as a whole.

What is lacking in this section?

Reviewer: The image alt text is the problem.

Author: Stack.png alt text set to "Screenshot of a sample stack, including an NGINX load-balancer, 2 Apache application containers and a Postgres database container"

demo-stack.png alt text set to "Screenshot of the three possible upload options, a project name set to demo-stack and a sample of the YAML file within the in browser editor"

port-clash.png alt text set to "Screenshot of Manual Mapping port entries and both options are set to 80"

restartcontainer.png alt text set to " Image showing the Stopped state and the Start state of containers"

Click on Add Stack or the blue plus shown in the image above.
 
You can paste, upload or select the file depending upon your needs. Set the name, it must be in lower case but can container '-' and numbers
 

> ![demo-stack](demo-stack.png "demo-stack")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

 
We can see in the image above that the container is stopped, and by going into the highlighted Settings we can edit the container and fix it.
 

> ![port_clash](port_clash.png "port_clash")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: Screenshot of Manual Mapping port entries and both options are set to 80

 
We can see that there is a clash since something is already using port 80. So we can edit to a different port, save and restart the container. Click on Stopped and select Start.
 
If it fails, you will receive an error message in the top right corner of your dashboard.
 

> ![restartcontainer](restartcontainer.png "restartcontainer")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: Image showing the Stopped state and the Start state of containers

      
Once your stack is started, delete ""/usr/local/psa/var/modules/docker/stacks/your-stack-name/nginx.conf". Since this did not exist at the time of the stacks creation, Docker helpfully made a directory there, but we need an nginx.conf file to redirect from the domains subdirectory to root within the stack. Therefore once you have removed the erroneously created folder, you will need to add a file there containing something similar to the below.  Upstream is required to point to application servers behind a load balancer, and in the case below the site would be example.com/dockertest/

> events { worker_connections 1024; }
> 
> http {
>     upstream my_apps {
>         server app-node-1:80;
>         server app-node-2:80;
>     }
> 
>     server {
>         listen 80;
> 
>         location /dockertest/ {
>             proxy_pass http://my_apps/;
>             proxy_set_header Host $host;
>             proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
>             proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
>             proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;
>         }
>     }
> }
  
  
When that file is in place, recreate your web facing container.

> ![lb-recreate](lb-recreate.png "lb-recreate")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: Screenshot of NGINX lb container details, with the hamburger many highlighted in purple and the Recreate button higlighted in green

Et voila! You now have part of your website hosted on docker and completely separate from the rest of your website, this is excellent for both reducing attack surface, defense in depth as well as any operational considerations.

##  Removal
  
Stopping or removing a stack can be done through the highlighted button below.
  

> ![stack%20removal](stack%20removal.png "stack%20removal")

Reviewer: Please make the alt text more descriptive and specific

Author: Screenshot of the demo-stack details, with purple highlighted hamburger menu showing the options Deploy, Watch, Stop and Destroy

## Portainer

[Portainer](https://docs.portainer.io/) hides the complexity of managing containers behind an easy-to-use UI. By removing the need to use the CLI, write YAML or understand manifests, Portainer makes deploying apps and troubleshooting problems so easy that anyone can do it.
  
##   Support
Due to the extremely large number of images and versions available, we do not offer support for internal container issues.

We do offer support for the setup of Docker on Plesk, Plesk and server related issues you may experience while installing and operating your containers.
  
##   License

> Should you wish to manage multiple Docker servers from a single point, you will need to purchase the Remote Docker license. For more information please see the documentation or contact Support.

Reviewer: I think including this kind of complicates life a bit more than necessary, but if we're stating it I think we can do so more clearly:
> A paid license option is available to enable you to manage Docker containers hosted on multiple different servers from a single interface (please contact billing@layershift.com for assistance), but managing containers hosted locally by a single Layershift Managed VPS is included at no additional cost.

Author: changed

Reviewer: Unsure if this is precise enough:
> from a single point

However, I don't currently have a better phrase in mind.

> For more information please see the documentation or contact Support.

I dislike this (it's inaccurate). Please use my proposed wording:
> (please contact billing@layershift.com for assistance)

Author: Changed to quote.

---
title: 'Docker Containers on Plesk'
taxonomy:
    category:
        - docs
aura:
    pagetype: website
metadata:
    'og:url': 'https://www.layershift.com/kb/managed-vps/docker/docker-on-plesk'
    'og:type': website
    'og:title': 'Docker Containers on Plesk | Layershift KB'
    'og:image': 'https://www.layershift.com/kb/user/images/ls-kb.jpg'
    'og:image:type': image/jpeg
    'og:image:width': 1200
    'og:image:height': 630
    'og:author': Layershift
    'article:published_time': '2026-06-24T18:46:05+01:00'
    'article:modified_time': '2026-06-24T18:46:05+01:00'
    'article:author': Layershift
media_order: 'OS_Panel.png,Extension Installation.png,Image_Selection.png,Image Version.png,AutoMemoryName.png,Volume Mappings.png,variablesPortsandVolumes.png,stack.png,demo-stack.png,container_settings.png,port_clash.png,restartcontainer.png,stack removal.png,COntext.png,ValkeySearch.png,ValkeyVersion.png,valkeyMemoryLimits.png,ValkeyENV.png,volumes.png,lb-recreate.png,UploadImage.png,RunLocal.png'
page-toc:
    active: true
---

Setting up a Dockerised container might seem complicated, but with Layershift and Plesk it's extremely easy!

### Prerequisites
 

> You're likely to need at least 512MiB of free RAM per container, but this may need to be higher depending on workload and image. Keep in mind that each Docker container adds to the overall resource requirements for your server. You can upgrade easily at any time; just reach out to our Support team if you need to add more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're likely to need at least 512MiB of free RAM per container, but this may need to be higher depending on workload and image. Keep in mind that each Docker container adds to the overall resource requirements for your server. You can upgrade resources easily at any time; just reach out to our Support team if you need to add more!
```

Every Layershift VPS includes regular automated backups. The entire server filesystem is backed up on a frequency and retention scheduled according to your server's backup plan, but depending on your particular Docker image you might want to make additional arrangements, for example some database containers may not be properly restorable from a filesystem backup.

> We also recommend that you read the [Plesk Documentation](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#setting-up-nginx-to-proxy-requests-from-domains-to-a-container) on the topic, although the below article will help you get setup using Docker on Plesk and if you run into any issues along the way, we have a [24/7 Helpdesk you can contact with your issues](https://help.layershift.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although this article will help you to get set up using Docker on Plesk, we recommend that you also read the [Plesk Documentation](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#setting-up-nginx-to-proxy-requests-from-domains-to-a-container) on the topic for additional context and guidance. 

If you run into any issues along the way, our [24/7 Helpdesk will be happy to assist](https://help.layershift.com), but please note the [Support Scope](#support) section below.
```

Reviewer: Please double-check that the `Support Scope` link actually works; the intent is to link to the corresponding section within this article.

 

## Installation
Docker comes pre-installed on all Layershift Plesk servers, so no need for installation. Just look to the left hand panel and you should see an option labelled Docker.   
   
If you are unable to see the extension, please contact our [helpdesk](https://help.layershift.com).

### Image Selection
Go to the Docker option in the left hand panel, then Run Container.

>  Docker image search pulls images from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/). Check the Upload Image below for adding your own, or adding images you have sourced from other sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Docker image search pulls images from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/), but you can also search other registries provided they're compatible with the `docker search` command (not all registries are) - for example `quay.io/keycloak/keycloak` will get you Keycloak from the Quay.io registry, whilst simply entering `valkey` will get you Valkey from Docker Hub.
```

Reviewer: I think we can cut the "Upload Image below" reference because of the proximity to the relevant section (if not, we should link to it). The rest of "from other sources" is covered by the explanation about how to use with different registries - though Plesk only supports public (not private) registries so this might be of little benefit in practice (unsure).

>   Search for your desired application image > Select specific image > Select version. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search for your desired application image > Select specific image > Select version. 
```

      
Below you can see the image results with the chosen option highlight in purple.      
   ![Valkey image search results, with the selected image highlighted in purple](ValkeySearch.png "ValkeySearch")

> Docker uses the term "Tag" to refer to the version details of a particular image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> If you are uncertain which version, use an explicitly named version so you can see what you are running simply be checking the tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! We recommend to avoid `latest` and prefer named version tags instead (to easily identify which version you have deployed later).
```

	   
   ![Image tag search results including both numbered, named and latest versions](ValkeyVersion.png "ValkeyVersion")

#### Upload Image

> If you have your own custom images that you would like to use, following the instructions in https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#o77137.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have your own custom image, the image resides in an unsupported registry (one that doesn't support `docker search`), or in a private registry, you can upload an image created with [`docker save`](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/image/save/) directly to the server:
```

> You can now upload that image by going to the purple highlighted Images tab and using the green highlighted Upload, shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the Images tab, and then the Upload image button.
```

 
![Screenshot of the Plesk Docker extension. The Images tab is selected, and the Upload Image button at the top of that section is highlighted.](UploadImage.png "UploadImage")

> Once the image is uploaded, you can run that image (or any other local images), by pressing the Run button highlighted in the image below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the file from your computer, and click Upload to add it to the list of local images stored on your server.

! Keep in mind that these images consume your VPS disk space, and can quickly add up (especially if you have multiple tags within each image).

Once the image is uploaded, you can run it by pressing the Run button as highlighted below:
```

![Screenshot showing highlighted run local play button from the Valkey search](RunLocal.png "RunLocal")

> Once done, you can follow the instructions below on setting up limits and configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Mapping
### Port Mapping

By default, Automatic port mapping selects an available host port for you. This is the recommended option for most deployments, as it helps avoid port conflicts.

Disable Automatic port mapping only if you need your container to be available on a specific host port. When using manual mapping, you can specify both the container port and the host port, and choose whether the port is accessible from the internet. The service is always accessible from the server itself (127.0.0.1).

!! If the host port you choose is already in use by another service or container, the container will fail to bind to that port. This is known as a port conflict. If this happens, select a different host port or enable Automatic port mapping.

A demonstration of resolving port conflicts is provided later in this guide under Domain Proxying.

Choosing a Host Port

If you are manually assigning a host port:

Use the port expected by your application where possible (for example, 8080 for web applications or 2222 for SSH services).
If that port is already in use, choose another unused registered port.
Avoid well-known system ports (0-1023) and dynamic/ephemeral ports (49152-65535).

> On servers running other software, some ports are commonly already in use. For example, on a Plesk server, ports 8443 and 3306 are typically unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the standard port expected by your application where possible (for example: 3036 for MySQL, 5432 for PostgreSQL, 6379 for Valkey etc.).
* If that port is already in use, choose another unused registered port (1024 - 49151).
  * Avoid well-known system ports (0 - 1023) and dynamic/ephemeral ports (49152 - 65535).
* On servers running other software, some ports are commonly already in use. For example, on a Plesk server, ports 3306 and 8443 are typically unavailable.
```

Port ranges:

Well-known (0-1023): Reserved for core system services (for example, SSH on 22).
Registered (1024-49151): Intended for applications and services. This is the range you should typically choose from.
Dynamic (49152-65535): Reserved by the operating system for temporary outbound connections and should not be used for manual port assignments.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Volume Mapping
A Docker volume allows persistent data storage for your container between redeployments, as redeploying a container will destroy all the data contained within it. A Docker volume is a directory on your server that you map onto a directory within the container. The container while able to read and write to that directory, cannot access anything above that directory.

Please disregard the error message. This warning is due to Docker volumes not being backed up by the Plesk Backup Tool. Your volumes will be backed up according to your servers backup license and schedule, as backing up the server will necessarily include backing up your Docker volumes.

You must use absolute paths in both entries.

/Server/Directory > /Container/Directory

Below we have a mapping for

/var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache > /var/lib/valkey.

> ![Screenshot of volume mapping with server directory /var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache on the left and container directory /var/lib/valkey on the right. There is a blank entry showing greyed out text with Host on the right and Container on the left](volumes.png "volumes")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, data written or changed inside your Docker container is **not persistent**! For some containers that's perfect, but for most you'll have at least *some* data that you want to keep hold of (e.g. if you're running a database server, you want to keep the files that represent the actual database).

A Docker volume is a directory on your server that you mount to a directory inside the container. The container can read and write to that directory, but cannot access anything above it (such as its parent directory).

! You must use absolute paths for the Host and Container volume paths

!!!! We recommend to save all of your Docker volumes under `/var/lib/docker/volumes` (which is their usual location) on the server (Host) side.

In the example below, we mount a server directory at `/var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache` to `/var/lib/valkey` inside the container, which allows us to retain the `/var/lib/valkey` data across Valkey redeploys (e.g. updating Valkey version).

![Screenshot of volume mapping with server directory /var/lib/docker/volumes/valkeycache on the left and container directory /var/lib/valkey on the right. There is a blank entry showing greyed out text with Host on the right and Container on the left](volumes.png "volumes")

!!! Docker volumes are excluded from backups created by Plesk's own backup tools; but your entire Layershift Managed VPS (including any Docker volumes) is backed up according to your selected [backup plan](../backups/full-filesystem-backups#retention-period-and-freq).
```

Reviewer: Please double-check the relative link to ensure it works.

> ### Environmental Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Environment Variables
```

> Below you can examples of port, volume and environmental variable mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker containers are typically configured by setting environment variables. 

The exact variables and their values are unique to the image you're using; please consult documentation for your chosen image to determine what values should be defined for your particular use case.
```

![Screenshot showing Automatic Mapping in unticked, Manual Mapping set to port 6379 on both host and container with the port being inaccessible from the internet. Volume mapping, as per the above image. Various common Environmental Variables within generic values to demonstrate purpose](ValkeyENV.png "ValkeyENV")

> ## Docker-compose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Docker Compose
```

> Should you wish to run a docker-compose.yaml file and setup a whole stack like the below. There are multiple ways you can upload your compose file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker Compose allows you to define and run multi-container applications (e.g. an application and its dependencies). In particular, you might find third party applications packaged in this manner.

Plesk enables you to easily utilise the Docker Compose file provided by those applications (or to write your own, for your own applications).
```

![Screenshot of a sample stack, including an NGINX load-balancer, 2 Apache application containers and a Postgres database container](stack.png "stack")

Click on Add Stack or the blue plus shown in the image above.
 
You can paste, upload or select the file depending upon your needs. Set the name, it must be in lower case but can container '-' and numbers
 

> ![Screenshot of the three possible upload options, a project name set to demo-stack and a sample of the YAML file within the in browser editor](demo-stack.png "demo-stack")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can write/paste a Docker Compose file directly in the editor, upload one from your computer, or use one that's already located in a webspace on the server.

Click the `Stacks` tab and then the blue `+` (add stack) icon to get started:

![Screenshot of the three possible upload options, a project name set to demo-stack and a sample of the YAML file within the in browser editor](demo-stack.png "demo-stack")

After saving your Docker Compose file, Plesk will execute it, and if all containers are declared `Healthy`, the project will be listed in the `Stacks` page as `Running`. You can expand the project to see the status of each individual container:

![Screenshot of a sample stack, including an NGINX load-balancer, 2 Apache application containers and a Postgres database container](stack.png "stack")

!!! If there's a problem, the provided output from `docker compose up` may help you to understand the reason, and you'll likely notice that one or more of your newly created containers are `stopped`.
```

> We can see in the image above that the container is stopped, and by going into the highlighted Settings we can edit the container and fix it.

Reviewer: The image (previously) above did not show a stopped container.

I understand why you've put the port conflict topic within Docker Compose (because a third party compose file is more likely to have port conflicts "out of the box"), but I think it makes sense to put within its own sub-section (still within Docker Compose).

> `### Troubleshooting`
> If your Stack doesn't launch smoothly:
> * Review the `docker compose up` output
> !!!! You can re-deploy an existing Stack via the vertical ellipsis (kebab menu) icon
> * Start the problem container (if it fails to start it may output an error)
> * Review the container's console log
> 
> `#### Port Conflicts`
> One possible scenario, especially with third party Docker Compose files - since they don't know the rest of your setup, is that your Docker Compose is attempting to use a port that's already in use by another service or container.
> ...

That way you can also link to it from earlier in the article + it separates the "you might hit this issue" from "here is how Docker Compose works".

Author: wrong image as linked there, I have changed it.

TS section added as quoted.

 
If it fails, you will receive an error message in the top right corner of your dashboard.
 
![Image showing the Stopped state and the Start state of containers](restartcontainer.png "restartcontainer")
 
 
  
##   Firewall and Domain Proxy
### Firewall Checks

Please refer to [Plesk Documentation](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/plesk-for-linux-the-plesk-firewall.72046/) regarding firewall management.

Note that if a container is NOT set to "Make the port inaccessible to the internet" it will be accessible from the internet on that port, including if you have that port blocked in the firewall.

If you set the container port to be accessible, it creates the firewall rule for you. But we recommend that you check on the rule and confirm the correct port is open.

### Domain Proxying

Domain proxying is an extremely useful feature of Plesk Docker.

You can have all or part of your website served from a container.

This is achieved by having NGINX forward the URL to a mapped external container port.

> For more information on setting this up, [please see the extensive Plesk documentation on the setup.](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#setting-up-nginx-to-proxy-requests-from-domains-to-a-container)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on setting this up, [please see the extensive Plesk documentation on the steps](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#setting-up-nginx-to-proxy-requests-from-domains-to-a-container).
```

Please note that the above is for setting up docker as the site root.

Should you wish to only have a part of your website hosted through docker, for example a members area or for different departments, this can be quite easily achieved but does require some finesse.
worldsbestbusiness.com could take you to the home page, you can then have worldsbestbusiness.com/singapore or worldsbestbusiness.com/members

> Since Plesk allows for the easy setup of subdomains, you can even have a container for accounting.worldsbestbusiness.com/compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
example.com could take you to the home page, you can then have example.com/singapore or example.com/members
Since Plesk allows for the easy setup of subdomains, you can even have a container for accounting.example.com/compliance.
```

Reviewer: Don't use real domains (especially ones we don't own); use example.com - it exists exactly for documentation purposes

We do offer support for the setup of Docker on Plesk, Plesk and server related issues you may experience while installing and operating your containers.
  
##   License

You do not need a license to manage the local Docker service running on your Layershift Plesk server.

A paid license option is available to enable you to manage Docker containers hosted on multiple different servers from a single interface (please contact billing@layershift.com for assistance), but managing containers hosted locally by a single Layershift Managed VPS is included at no additional cost.

# Going Further

## Making Your Own Docker Image

Once you are comfortable with launching containers and stacks you may wish to customise your images. This can be done without having to publish the image to a public repository, as long as you have the image locally. Below is the Docker documentation for writing and customising your own images.

https://docs.docker.com/get-started/docker-concepts/building-images/

https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/#building

https://docs.docker.com/build/

https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/overview/

> Please note that while you can run customised images on layershift Plesk servers, we do not offer support for troubleshooting them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Going Further

## Customising Docker Images
Once you are comfortable with launching containers and stacks you may wish to customise your images. 

You can create a new image based on changes to an existing container by following [the steps outlined in the Plesk Documentation](https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#o77137)

! We recommend to use a meaningful tag name instead of `latest` (the default) because what is `latest` today will soon become outdated over time... You might use an incrementing version number or something containing the creation date as example alternatives.

## Creating Your Own Docker Image
Creating your own Docker image involves writing a `Dockerfile`, and then `building` it. 

!!!! Docker images are composed in layers, meaning that it's normal for one image to inherit / be built upon another - so you don't need to start from scratch. However, be mindful that as well as inheriting someone else's work, you're inheriting their bugs and security vulnerabilities too!

Please refer to [Docker's Building images guide](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/docker-concepts/building-images/) for more details.
```

 

## Installation

> Docker comes pre-installed on all Layershift Plesk servers, so no need for installation. Just look to the left hand panel and you should an option labelled Docker.   

Reviewer: Typo:
> should an option

Author: "see" inserted.

   
If you are unable to see the extension, please contact our [helpdesk](https://help.layershift.com).

### Image Selection
Go to the Docker option in the left hand panel, then Run Container.

 Docker image search pulls images from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/). Check the Upload Image below for adding your own, or adding images you have sourced from other sources.

  Search for your desired application image > Select specific image > Select version. 
      
Below you can see the image results with the chosen option highlight in purple.      
   ![ValkeySearch](ValkeySearch.png "ValkeySearch")

> Docker uses the term "Tag" to refer to the version details of a particular image. The version is split into both the numbered version (9.1.0 below) and the named version. Alpine, Trixie, rc2 in the image below.

Reviewer: The naming scheme for Docker tags is entirely arbitrary (up to the image author's choice), so I don't think we should attempt to explain it.

Author: explanation removed

> If you are uncertain which version, use "latest"

Reviewer: I consider this to be bad advice. Using "latest" is dangerous because what is "latest" when you deploy it becomes unclear later.

It's recommended best practice to avoid using "latest" and instead always use an explicit named version; that way you can see exactly what version you have deployed at any moment just by looking at the tag (which will prove to be important information to know for compatibility and security reasons).

Author: I guess I got bad advice before. Fair enough.

Edited.

Below you can see the various tags
	   
   ![ValkeyVersion](ValkeyVersion.png "ValkeyVersion")

#### Upload Image

> If you have your own custom images that you would like to use, following the instructions in https://docs.plesk.com/en-US/obsidian/administrator-guide/plesk-administration/using-docker.75823/#o77137.

Reviewer: The linked "Creating Images with Custom Settings" section of Plesk doc describes something very different (though it's a useful feature in its own right, that we should probably mention separately?).

That feature/documentation is a way to create an image derived from a currently deployed container.

However, uploading an image is a way to run an image that was created locally (on the customer's computer, not on the Plesk server) **without** publishing it to a repository such as Docker Hub.

We could/should link to some authoritative documentation for "how to build a Docker image" such as any of these (I don't have a strong opinion about which one, but I consider these to be likely to remain stable and authoritative, whilst linking to https://docs.docker.com/get-started/docker-concepts/building-images/ might get 404'd in future(?), and linking to something not in docs.docker.com is not sufficiently authoritative):
* https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/dockerfile/#building
* https://docs.docker.com/build/
* https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/overview/

Author: Added a section "Going Further: Making your own docker image" on the end that details the documentation and our support level.

 
You can now upload that image by going to the purple highlighted Images tab and using the green highlighted Upload, shown below.
 
![UploadImage](UploadImage.png "UploadImage")

Once the image is uploaded, you can run that image (or any other local images), by pressing the Run button highlighted in the image below.

![RunLocal](RunLocal.png "RunLocal")

Once done, you can follow the instructions below on setting up limits and configuration.

### Memory Limits and Autostart
We now set the container name, any desired memory_limits and auto restart. These are shown in the image below with the memory_limit set to 1024Mb and auto-restart activated.

![valkeyMemoryLimits](valkeyMemoryLimits.png "valkeyMemoryLimits")

## Mapping
### Port Mapping
Manual port binding is available if the "Automatic port mapping" button is deselected. You can set both the port you wish inside and outside the container and if you wish the port to accessible from the internet. It is always accessible from the server (127.0.0.1)

>  You may have issues with pre-existing services or other containers already using a particular port. This is called a Port Clash and you can mitigate it through using manual port mapping  and setting the port to an appropriate IP.

Reviewer: I think the port conflict issue needs to be formatted as a [warning](https://github.com/layershift/kb-layershift#warning), and can probably be slimmed down a bit.

I also recommend to separate the issue of automatic vs. manual port binding (i.e. when to use which one) vs. how to decide which port can be used (if selecting a manual one).

Finally, is the "how to select a port number" guidance the best we can do? Reading it, I'm honestly not sure how to decide what port to use, and what happens if I get it wrong. Can we try to come up with something that's easier for the customer to follow / apply?

Author: Warning added.
The word IP was in there, changed to value.

I dont think we can be prescriptive on what port a customer should use, the best we can do is give them the information. At least, I don't know of any particular advice on port selection.
 At times i've incremented for multiple of the same service, other times you use the port number again (8080, 2222).
 
 
 I've done some minor changes, but im going to come and look at this with fresh eyes tomorrow.

Author: Reworked
